I am Sergey Bubka. Born in 1963 in Luhansk ,
Ukraine. I am a Soviet and Ukrainian former
pole vaulter. I represented the Soviet
Union until its dissolution in 1991.
I was twice named Athlete of the Year by Track
& Field News and in 2012 was one of 24 athletes
inducted as inaugural members of the International
Association of Athletics Federations Hall of Fame.
I was a track-and-field athlete in the 100-meter
dash and the long jump but became a world-class
champion only when I turned to the pole vault.
In 1983, virtually unknown internationally,
I won the world championship in Helsinki, Finland,
and the following year set my first world record,
clearing 5.85 meters. I became noted for
establishing new records by slim amounts,
sometimes as little as a centimeter higher.
This allowed me to collect frequent rewards and
made me an attraction at track-and-field meets.
I won six consecutive IAAF World Championships,
an Olympic gold medal, and broke the world
record for men's pole vault 35 times.
I was the first pole vaulter to
clear 6.0 meters and 6.1 meters.
I held the indoor world record of 6.15 meters, set
on 1993 in Donetsk, Ukraine for almost 21 years
until France's Renaud Lavillenie cleared 6.16
meters on 2014 at the same meet in the same arena.
I held the outdoor world record at
6.14 meters between 1994 and 2020.
I am Senior Vice President of the International
Association of Athletics Federations,
serving since 2007, and President of the
National Olympic Committee of Ukraine,
serving since 2005. I am also an Honorary
Member of the International Olympic Committee,
having been involved since 1996.
The strategy of my coach and me was that we
looked at pictures of all the best pole vaulters
from around the world, and we took the best parts
from them, and we imagined a person that had never
existed. We then started to work toward being such
a person. So does your dream. Make it happen
by imagining all the great pieces forming it.